Alright! In this video, we are gonna take
a look at JUnit 5. We're going to get you
guys introduced to that. Now JUnit 5
originally started as a project called
JUnit Lambda. This was a source through a
crowdfunding campaign started on mid 2015.
They raised about €54,000  for it.
They have a number of corporate
sponsors and, notably Pivotal and
American Express were involved in the
initial development of it. The first
general availability release was made
September 10, 2017 considering that it's
not even a year later. JUnit 5 is still
fairly new to the marketplace. They've
had a couple other interim releases, but
the first general available release was
made in September 10th 2017. They did
have some milestone releases and stuff
going up to that but the GA releases
really the go to production type release.
Now you might be wondering why JUnit 5.
JUnit 4 is widely very very
popular, one of the most popular Java
libraries out there
I think if not the most popular based on
download metrics and usage
statistics. It was originally released
back in February of 2006. If you look
back, Java 6 was released in December of
2006. So it came out on Java 5 and that
was really kind of the original release
of that. So it was tied to that, these
older versions of Java.
There was about 12 minor releases since
then where they did add additional
functionality to JUnit 4. But obviously,
since Java 5, there's been quite a few
changes to the Java language, so the
language had evolved but our testing
tool really had not. I do you wanna point
out at this point in time, I'm recording
this in August of 2018, JUnit 4 is
definitely the de facto standard for
Java unit testing. It's widely used
everywhere. There's other testing
frameworks. I'm not gonna get into an
argument about which is better in their
merits. Just from the marketplace, JUnit 4
has a significant lead over any other
testing framework. So if you're going out
into the workplace even today, you're
probably gonna see a lot of JUnit 4 out
there.
Now, going along why they did that, they
wanted to take JUnit 5 and allow it to
leverage new features of Java 8 such as
Lambda Expression, Streams and they've
actually made Java 8 or higher required
so we're kind of cutting the baggage of
these old Java releases. Much like Spring
5. Spring 5 requires Java 8 or higher. So
these requirements allow a lot of
flexibility so you're not required to
maintain backwards compatibility, so very
important for a large framework like
this. We're seeing more and more
frameworks put a stake in the ground
saying that we are only gonna
support Java 8 or higher. A pretty common
thing in the Java industry right now so
I don't blame them for doing that.
Now, one of the things that they provided in
JUnit 5 is they wanna design it for
better integration and extensibility. So
you're gonna see more extensions to it
as well as IDE compatibility so there's
some nice hooks in there. The IDE
manufacturers can hook into. Now, one of
the features of JUnit 5 is an Optional
library called JUnit Vintage. This
library will allow you to run both
JUnit 3 and JUnit 4 tests using the
JUnit 5 Runner. So this is kind of
designed to give you a migration path
because in the industry, JUnit 4 and 3
were widely popular and let's face it
there's a lot of legacy code out there.
You might be updating your code and you
don't wanna have to go in and update
all your existing tests to JUnit 5. So
the JUnit Vintage allows an easy
migration to JUnit 5 so this very
important feature that will help people
adopt the new version of JUnit.
Now some very important differences
between the two. In JUnit 4, if you're
not familiar with it, you will see this
coming up in the course. You can do @Test
expected and give it an exception class.
That is in the @Test annotation that is
now gone away. Inside of a JUnit 5,
you have an assertion of assertThrows,
so you expect that same a timeout that
was also an attribute of the @Test
annotation. No longer the case in JUnit 5,
you now have an assertion. Yet
the way you set up Spring, remember
Spring has its own class runner. You'd
use a @RunWith annotation, so you're
gonna run with a special test runner for
it, Here  in JUnit 5, that
annotation now becomes @ExtendWith.
There's a couple other changes to the
annotations that are used. So, in JUnit 4,
we have @Before, so that is expected
to run before each test method. Now, in
JUnit 5, that becomes @BeforeEach, then
@After and @AfterEach. Same effects. Both
of those are gonna be before after each
test method. Now we had a Before
class and After class. That becomes
@BeforeAll and @AfterAll inside of JUnit 5
And then next, I actually got
caught by this one. JUnit 4, just
recently, they switch @Ignored to @Disabled.
So I was trying to ignore a test and I
kept running in. I was using JUnit 5. Like
why am I keep running? So
something that throw the wrench in, so
it works for me. JUnit 4 also has a
very powerful tool called Category. It
allows you to categorize your tests and
allows you to run them in groups. That
has evolved to tags inside of JUnit 5.
Now ahead in this course, most of the
Spring Framework 5 Beginner to Guru
course was developed using JUnit 4.
Mainly because JUnit 4 was what was
out at the time that bulk of the
development occurred. JUnit 4 is
still very popular. There's definitely a
ton of legacy code using JUnit 4. Now
I'm introducing JUnit 5 in the
Spring Pet Clinic Project because it
is getting out there in the marketplace
and for the foreseeable future,
again this is August 2018, I think you're
gonna see both in the marketplace.
There's just a lot of people comfortable with
JUnit 4. It's a
great tool so I can't knock them for
that. JUnit 5 does bring some new
capabilities, but the Java community can
be slow to adapt, so I think for the next
few years, you're gonna see JUnit 4
continue to get used by a lot of people
but you will start seeing people adapt
JUnit 5. Now coming up, I am
considering developing a specialized
testing course to do a really deep dive.
In this course here, I am focused on
Spring Framework 5 not testing. I do
introduce it but these are things that I
could do a whole course on. I'm actually
thinking about a very deep dive course
go into these tool sets like JUnit
4 and 5,  Mockito. I have not used
Spock in this course but I am a huge
Spock fan. That does take a little groovy
foo but Spock is a great testing tool
and then there's a really new project
out called Test Containers that allows
you to write from your JUnit test,
add-in dependencies on Docker Containers
and how you execute and work with those
so you can run some pretty
interesting integration tests. If
this is a course that you would like to
see, I'm pretty sure I'm gonna do
this course but I think this would be a
fun course and very valuable course. If its
something you'd like to see, please leave
a comment here so I can gauge your
interest. I think this would be a lot of
fun to do. So coming up, JUnit 4, it's
gonna be used in the regular course.
In the Spring Pet Clinic, in the next few
videos, I'm gonna start setting up JUnit 5.
So in this course, you'll get a chance
to see both JUnit 4 and 5 and you'll
also see Mockito used as well. So, a lot
of fun stuff coming up.